welcome everybody today
i wanna build with you all a little
blockchain game we
are gonna try to build this within the
hour or at least i'm gonna give you all
the kind of concepts to builds in less
than an hour and
you will be able to take that and build
any game that you can possibly imagine
using any blockchain you like
let me jump into i built this first
thing i did is i jump into my terminal
here and
the one thing that
is the starting point for anything with
third web
is to use the third web cli
now to invoke the stereo with cli i
don't need to download anything or set
up anything i just need to run npx
third web
and
if i just run this
it will tell me what i can do with the
web so here we have a nice size card
love that and we can see there's a bunch
of options the one that
i will start with is create
so let's run that npx the web create
create will walk me through step-by-step
instructions to create either an app
like a front-end app
or a smart contract when i start a
blockchain project like this like a
blockchain game i usually start with the
contract because that's going to be kind
of the kind of my back end
if you will
it's going to be my engine
so i choose contract
and let's call it um
[Music]
workshop demo here and
the next thing he asked me is to choose
a
smart contract framework so
hard hat or forge is the two options we
have right now
and we're about to add more
i like forge personally um
it's
nice and quick it's a bit faster than
hard hat but hard has a bit more kind of
plugins and support so they're both good
options let's go with forge
[Music]
and now this is the interesting part um
the cli asked me if i want to start
from
one of the web's base contracts and this
accelerates my development quite a bit
because i don't have to write everything
from scratch i can start with something
that already works and just customize it
so
for my game we had three nfts
the three cat levels right kitten grub
cat and ninja cat people can claim
multiple kittens and can have multiple
ground because there's multiple copies
of each in the world
that is the definition of a erc 1155
nft the difference between erc 721 and
1155 they're both nfts but erc 721 are
unique nfts each nft is unique they
cannot be additional copies of it
whereas 1155
you can kind of print multiple editions
of the same nft so that's what i want to
do with my cats because i want in
circulation multiple kittens multiple
grumpy cats so 1155 is going to be my
choice
now
i can choose a bare bones 1155 contract
and start from there
or i can choose one that has a little
bit more functionality like lazy mint
or delayed reveal or a full-on drop
contract
if you're familiar with
uh the third web contracts uh this is
stuff that we
provide in our pre-built contracts but
now you can create your own contract
that starts from that and customize it
to your needs for this i actually chose
1155 plus lazy mint
lazy mint
is what i'm gonna use to create my cats
initially i want to like prepare them
for other people to start
claiming
but i don't want
to
mint them for myself all because i'm
just the game creator i just want to
like prep them out so that other people
can claim and play with them so lazy men
is is meant exactly for that so i'm
going to choose this base
and so this is going to create my uh my
project so let's have a look at that one
right here so now i have uh mt forge
like a standard forge project with
my contract here
which extends the base that i chose to
extend
in the cli
so now i'm ready to go this is by the
way all ready to
build and deploy so here i can do if i
wanted to deploy this right away
i can go ahead and run yarn deploy and
this will deploy it to the blockchain
we actually actually want to customize
this a little bit right so that i get my
game behavior that i want
so there's two things that uh i've
customized uh on top of adding a couple
of functions
the first thing that i thought was
interesting is to customize the the
transfer and burn behavior how would i
go and change the behavior of this
contract
to do something else when i burn
an nft
so the great thing is that because again
i start from my base i can just command
click on here and start looking how this
base is constructed and so i see a bunch
of things like
getting the uri and here there's like
interesting things like okay this is how
i claim
nnft so let's not just claim multiple
lazy minted nfts at once
uh
one or more right so there's a claim
function and then there's a verify claim
here
it says add your claim verification
logic by overriding this function okay
so there is an empty function here that
we can override to control who can claim
and
what rules should be for the claiming
and then we see oh there's a burn
function here
that's an owner
uh burn nfts to a given token id so here
it just does a regular burn thing i can
go ahead and and customize this
completely right so i could go
okay let's take this function go back to
my contract
and let's change the name of this it's
going to be
my cat
attack contract
like that and then
so in the constructor we don't care
too much about what we're going to do we
want to override the burn burn should do
something different for us so we're
going to change this virtual into
override so we say we overriding this
function
and now we get to do whatever we want in
here in my game what i wanted to do is
when you burn the grumpy kitten you get
the ninja cat uh for this demo what we
can do is say
actually when you're gonna burn your
kitten you're gonna get a grumpy cat
just for to to do the small loop of show
you how how this whole like iteration
loop looks like to burn the nft all i
need to do is call burn basically i can
call either the super.burn
with the same parameters we just uh
close the function that was uh
underneath i can just copy what exactly
what this is doing here and changing a
little bit so that we override
completely
uh
so
i don't actually care about these checks
here on the proof caller
i guess we can do the same so let's take
it all in
and just copy paste it here
and we're just gonna change the behavior
of like
okay once you burn your kitten we're
gonna do something extra right
so we can do
if the token id
is
zero which is gonna be the the the token
for the
kitten okay so if you burn successfully
and the the
burn token was zero
then uh i can i can mint you another
token so here uh actually
copilot completes pretty much everything
for me here
so we can say
here's gonna mint so let's look at mint
mint is
the two address the id that i want to
mint how many and then additional data
so mint
to the owner that would call burn
the id is going to be one so if you burn
token zero i'm going to give you token
id one and now i'm gonna give you only
one of them and then
that's it that's that's the uh way to
like customize the behavior of the base
contract just take one function
slapping it override and now you can do
whatever you want inside of it
uh let's change a couple of things here
we don't want royalty a royalty
recipient we don't care about that
but the the base requires it so here we
can just say it's going to be whoever
calls this so message the sender
and the royalty amount is going to be
zero
we can leave name and symbol because
that way people like when you deploy we
can customize that
and that's it let's try it um let's try
deploying that straight up
and kind of play with this so when i run
yarn deploy
in a project created with the cli it's
actually going to run uh npx the web
deploy for me so you can do it both ways
you can use the the scripts here with
yarn or you can just run npx or deploy
and that will work in any
other projects
um so here it's going to run the cli
he found that it's type foundry
and then he found my contracts my
catabac contract
is gonna do um
uploads and upload for all the relevant
metadata and compilation data that we're
gonna need to deploy this contract
and then what's cool with this is that
it's gonna open up my browser to
continue the deployment there
so that i can use like my metamask
wallet or my conveys wallet directly
from my browser to do the deploy
and this is super important because
if you've deployed any smart contract
before
you know that you have usually have to
deal with local scripts that you have to
write
and that requires usually exporting your
private key and putting it in a file
just so that
you can
run the script
on behalf of your wallet and that's
super dangerous because leaving your
private keys on a local file is
generally a bad idea and so with this
i don't even need to extract my private
key and put in a file anywhere because
it's gonna do everything through the
browser but once the cli ends uploading
you get a url that
opens up automatically or you can click
on it and it looks like this so this is
actually
taking the
contract that i just wrote
in front of you and letting me deploy on
the blockchain so let's give it a name
uh cat attack
this is gonna be just my test one so i'm
just gonna test
uh cat cat cat attack test perfect
and i can choose to add it to my
dashboard i can choose which
chain i want to deploy to
uh so let's do arbitrom because it's
nice and fast
so the first
transaction is to deploy and the second
transaction is to add to my dashboard
so let's do both
and
here i have now
the
contract explorer and my generated
dashboard for the contract i just wrote
including my customized burn function
that we just wrote together all right
so this burn function here is what's
going to get executed when i call burn
uh on the contract explorer
now uh there's no events yet because i
i just deployed it so it's just the
default stuff and then there's no nfts
there yet because i haven't i just
deployed it once again the dashboard
gives you a lot of convenience here so
because we detected those nfts i have
this handy like hey you want to add an
entity to your contract like we know how
to do this because we recognize which
type of contract so here i can do okay
batch upload
select some files um
document this is my cad drop right so i
have a little folder prepared with three
images and a json file that points to my
images so this now i can do from the ui
or i can do it from code too but the ui
is so convenient here
so it's gonna upload my nfts to ipfs and
then
it's going to call my contract to
lazymint those nfts okay
so already like we've interacted with
the contract that we just wrote and we
didn't have to put out any private keys
or anything environment variables or
anything like that we just did npx throw
a deploy or yarn deploy if you use one
of our contract templates
project templates
and
you get to your page and you start
interacting with it now we're going to
test real quick the behavior that we
just wrote so
we said hey if i burn
a
kitten
so i took an id 0 which is again took an
ids here so if i burn a t a kitten i
will mint a token id 1 which is a grumpy
gear okay so right now you can see here
all the supplies are at zero because i
lazy minted those nfts right
and so if i go to the explorer and let's
say i want to claim one for myself i can
actually do it from there i can also do
it from code but just to try it out real
quick
i'm going to show you what it looks like
so here i'm going to copy my
wallet address here for my receiver so
token id is going to be zero and i just
want to mint one and i'm gonna execute
it right here
so this is gonna call claim
so it's gonna give me one uh kitten
here's the successful transaction
and now if i go to the nfts it will show
me that there's one supply claimed for
nfts
now if i click on it
i get actions to do on it and again this
is all possible because my contract
implements a standard that the dashboard
and the third web sdk understands and so
we're able to provide all these
convenience ui and apis so here it
recognized that i own this kitten so i'm
able to transfer it
air drop it or burn it so let's try to
burn it which should call the devil burn
function and execute our custom code now
let's see if the demo gods are with me
today so let's burn one
okay i'm gonna confirm transaction
burn successful and now you can see that
there's zero supply for token id zero
but there's one for grumpy cat
token id1 so it worked i burned my token
so it
destroyed it and it executed my custom
logic here to mince something uh as i
burned it okay
so that's on the smart contract side how
i was able to customize all the transfer
actions burn actions etc
how did i build this app now that is my
custom front-end that took my contract
once again i went to my terminal and i
did mpx the web create
and this time
i didn't choose contract i chose app
now it's going to tell me okay which
type of framework do you want to use i
chose next because
that's the one i'm used to
but you're free to use the one that you
prefer and then it asks you if you want
javascript but typescript i usually go
with typescript but against preference
and then it's going to create a project
and here i have it open already actually
it's this one so this is what it creates
for me preset
next project that
uh is ready to go the empty setup is you
get the third web provider all set up so
you have to think about it
and the one thing you do need to modify
in the app
with tsx is which chain id we're gonna
work with so which blockchain we're
gonna interact with by default it's
mainnet and so if you're testing stuff
it's probably not gonna be mainnet uh
you have
uh all the
uh chain ids that you that we support
and we're gonna work with arbitrom
testnet because that's where i deploy my
contract right so i just set that up and
kind of forget about it
now in the index uh by default the only
thing we get is a connect wallet button
so let's have a look at what that looks
like
let's do yarn dev or next that's the
the default thing to launch the the site
and
now i can open it up uh
in
this tab right here
and by default all i get is this
pretty nice looking connect button so by
default it looks like this
i can connect with metamask as well it
will connect
this works on mobile on desktop
so i click meta mask and boom i'm
connected
i can switch networks i can switch
accounts etc so this is already my
connect body functionality all set up
for me all ready to go and only required
is this
little
line right here
click wallet
now obviously the thing that we really
want to do is talk to our custom smart
contracts right the one that we just
deployed
so
for that the thing that we're going to
need is
the address of the smart contract
so
address is right here in my dashboard i
can just click on that to copy it
and go back to my code
and the way to
grab an instance of my smart contract my
front end
is using our react sdk
that has a lot of uh
handy hooks for me so the syntax looks
like this
and the hook is called use contracts
use contract that's all you have to
remember and here it wants the address
of the contract i'm just going to paste
it in from my dashboard
and that's it
this is all i need to do to
get a hold of my
contract that is deployed on
the chain that i've
um specified in here this active chain
id
so now i just buy this address it's
going to look for my contract on that
chain and now i have
access to it so from here
i can do all sorts of interesting things
with it
and i can use all of the handy hooks
from it so for example if i wanted to
just say display all the nfts
in the contract i could use the use nfts
hook
and using fts just requires passing the
contracts
and this returns
um
a
object called data so all of the hooks
that read something return something
called data and you can see that it's a
array of nfts so let we can rename it we
can call it nfts like that
and now i can say hey actually you know
what let me put a divider here
and then we're gonna do hey nfts
if they're there map it and just show
[Music]
the best way to do this
to show nfts is to use yet again like
rsd cast convenience for everything
a
third web nft media
okay
so here uh it wants
uh a key so let's do that
it's nft is not
token id is it it's metadata dot id and
then
for the nft he wants
uh that so i think he should be happy
now and this should be a string
okay let's have a look at the website uh
if it's happy
okay my wallet uh
yeah so this is not it's actually not
full i need to pass it the metadata here
and is this even right it's
co-pilot sometimes is too
too eager and you gotta correct it bad
cobalt bad cobala okay so this is the
the way i display a nft with just a few
lines of code
and here are my nfts i didn't need to
connect my wallet for this because it's
just reading from my contract right here
it's just
the third web media
nft media it takes in your nft metadata
and handles all sorts of media types
images videos mp3s
3d files all of that so it's a really
handy way to display your nfts and then
here you know excuse my
html skills probably need to do a div
here
and then
so now it's there uh one on top of each
other and if i wanted to display like
the name with it i would do uh
so nft
and ft meta
all right
[Music]
and i think i need
missing key yeah i need to put the key
at the very top here okay
so now i have my nft image with the name
of it
image name of it the image name of it
right so that's how i now i can read
stuff from my contracts
using the hooks
and
it only took like this amount of code to
now display all the nfcs in my contract
i could switch it up and say
hey actually i want to show only owned
nfts which is what i actually use in the
final demo
and if i use own nfts it wants
the
contracts and obviously who should own
it so the owner wallet address and the
way to get that
is just to do
another hook use address
so now if i do use address in anywhere
in my app i can get the connected
address uh right here so now if i switch
to own nfts
and now i do need to connect my wallet
so i can get the address
now it shows me the one i owned the
grumpy cat okay
so this is how i read data
now the interesting thing here is
doing transactions on the contract and
for that we have an amazing component
that
we really we really really like i think
everybody really likes it
and i'm gonna put it up here actually
and it's called the web3 button
the web3 button
is
a little button component
that allows you to do
actions on any contracts and it's super
super easy to use so let's make a button
for claiming a kitten okay
play my kitten
so what would that look like and here
let me see if this uh missing attributes
add missing attributes so here he wants
two things
he wants the contract address which we
have up here and we can make this into a
cons so
it doesn't
we don't repeat that and then he wants
an action
so an action is actually just a function
that passes me
my contract so i just passed the address
and the action gives me back the
contract and then from the contracts i
can do
all sorts of actions
so here
if i want to do a custom completely
custom
call on my contract i can use
contract.call and here i just need to
pass the function name and the arguments
now how do i find these
go back to my dashboard go back to the
explorer and these are all the functions
i can call right
so here's the claim function and here
are all the parameters that um i would
need
by the way you can also jump into the
code tab here
and look for
all the read functions here and it shows
you some nice capabilities here the
switch to javascript
and writing data i'm interested in claim
so here actually it gives me the exact
syntax that i should be
using here so let me do this
and then receiver is going to be who
myself or the connected address right
with the use address
token id is going to be zero to claim a
kitten right talking id 0 is kitten and
quantity just one okay
and that's it that's that's my web 3
button when i click on it i want to
execute this action on my contract okay
let's have a look at the
my code so it looks like this okay
it's really cool with web3 button if i'm
not connected
it actually becomes a connect wallet
button
so i wouldn't even need this connect
wallet button in my app i could just use
web3 button just do one action and this
will handle everything
this will handle by the way network
switching and all this stuff
so once i'm connected
and i'm on the right chain it will show
me the action that i'm supposed to do
so if i click claim a kitten now it's
gonna handle all the way open the
metamask call the right action on it
that i said in my my action function
confirm
and boom here's my kitten i just claimed
it and my used own nft is refreshed
automatically it's all hooked up
together
now you can see how the whole stack
comes together
of super quickly building contracts
super quickly deploying it managing it
uploading nfts to it exploring looking
at all the events etc
super quickly building a front end with
it which using the hooks and using the
web reaction button which is honestly
phenomenal
i use this for everything
so
this was clay in the kitten we can do
another quick one for burn if we wanted
to
let's call this burn
and now
for burn
for burn we can do it differently we can
use one of the pre-built
functions that we provide that are way
more high level
so
our contract is at year c 1155 which
means i should have access to all the
erc-1155 functions here and let's see
what i get i can do things like the
balance and all that but
what i want is actually do an action so
here's the burn function right here it's
also claiming there's also all sorts of
other things lazy mint is here okay
and
this will kind of detect if your
contract supports this type of action
and execute it for you if it doesn't
execute for you it will give you a nice
error message that tells you how to
unlock this api for your contract
so here i'm interested in just the burn
right
and now it's like a nice high-level api
it tells me to take a token id should be
the first parameter so i i want to burn
my kitten right took an id
zero and burn quantity one
all right so now i get another uh thing
and by the way let's make this a little
different
uh we could pass accent color red
because
burn is kind of a destructive action
right so we can switch like that you can
make this dark mode light mode accent
color so there's a bunch of
customization you can do
and uh
let me try to call burn
so again now it's going to call a
different action on my contracts and
this should not burn my kitten
and now have two grumpy cats so i don't
show actually how many i have here but
that's another thing i could easily do
using another hook use balance this will
give me how many have
and
etc etc so this is how i kind of build
this entire
ui here
using action web3 buttons
using use owned nfts here to
automatically show what i own
and uh
then the last thing that i haven't shown
here is the game events and that once
again is another hook
which we call uh use
uh i think it's all all contract events
so if i do use all con all contract
events
it's the same
same syntax here
and just pass my contract
and this will give me all of the events
that happen on my contract
and the very cool thing is that this
will give me the past events by default
but
there are options that i can pass
if i pass
subscribe
true
now i get all the past events plus in
real time all the new events that are
happening in my contracts
so
again a lot of functionality packed in
these hooks on our reactor sdk
so i'm going to stop here because i'm
almost almost that time
but that's basically the stack so to
recu to reiterate
npx the web
create
gives you
the choice
do you want to create a contract over
app usually start with contract choose a
base customize it
then npx the web deploy to deploy it
now you get a dashboard you can interact
with it you can copy the address
then npxtor will create
app
create a quick front-end with it
do
use contracts or
any of the hooks
to read data from it
and use the web3 button to
call things on it and that's how in less
than a few hours you can build any web 3
app that you can possibly imagine that
is the magic of the web and we
absolutely love this flow and
everybody that tries it loves it so
give it a try and i promise you
you will never go back to anything else
it is such a joy to use